.\" Hey Emacs! This file is -*- nroff -*- source.
.\"
.\" Copyright 1993 Rickard E. Faith (faith@cs.unc.edu)
.\" Portions extracted from /usr/include/sys/socket.h, which does not have
.\" any authorship information in it.  It is probably available under the GPL.
.\"
.\" Permission is granted to make and distribute verbatim copies of this
.\" manual provided the copyright notice and this permission notice are
.\" preserved on all copies.
.\"
.\" Permission is granted to copy and distribute modified versions of this
.\" manual under the conditions for verbatim copying, provided that the
.\" entire resulting derived work is distributed under the terms of a
.\" permission notice identical to this one
.\" 
.\" Since the Linux kernel and libraries are constantly changing, this
.\" manual page may be incorrect or out-of-date.  The author(s) assume no
.\" responsibility for errors or omissions, or for damages resulting from
.\" the use of the information contained herein.  The author(s) may not
.\" have taken the same level of care in the production of this manual,
.\" which is licensed free of charge, as they might when working
.\" professionally.
.\" 
.\" Formatted or processed versions of this manual, if unaccompanied by
.\" the source, must acknowledge the copyright and authors of this work.
.\"
.\"
.\" Other portions are from the 6.9 (Berkeley) 3/10/91 man page:
.\"
.\" Copyright (c) 1983 The Regents of the University of California.
.\" All rights reserved.
.\"
.\" Redistribution and use in source and binary forms, with or without
.\" modification, are permitted provided that the following conditions
.\" are met:
.\" 1. Redistributions of source code must retain the above copyright
.\"    notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer.
.\" 2. Redistributions in binary form must reproduce the above copyright
.\"    notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer in the
.\"    documentation and/or other materials provided with the distribution.
.\" 3. All advertising materials mentioning features or use of this software
.\"    must display the following acknowledgement:
.\"     This product includes software developed by the University of
.\"     California, Berkeley and its contributors.
.\" 4. Neither the name of the University nor the names of its contributors
.\"    may be used to endorse or promote products derived from this software
.\"    without specific prior written permission.
.\"
.\" THIS SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED BY THE REGENTS AND CONTRIBUTORS ``AS IS'' AND
.\" ANY EXPRESS OR IMPLIED WARRANTIES, INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, THE
.\" IMPLIED WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY AND FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE
.\" ARE DISCLAIMED.  IN NO EVENT SHALL THE REGENTS OR CONTRIBUTORS BE LIABLE
.\" FOR ANY DIRECT, INDIRECT, INCIDENTAL, SPECIAL, EXEMPLARY, OR CONSEQUENTIAL
.\" DAMAGES (INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, PROCUREMENT OF SUBSTITUTE GOODS
.\" OR SERVICES; LOSS OF USE, DATA, OR PROFITS; OR BUSINESS INTERRUPTION)
.\" HOWEVER CAUSED AND ON ANY THEORY OF LIABILITY, WHETHER IN CONTRACT, STRICT
.\" LIABILITY, OR TORT (INCLUDING NEGLIGENCE OR OTHERWISE) ARISING IN ANY WAY
.\" OUT OF THE USE OF THIS SOFTWARE, EVEN IF ADVISED OF THE POSSIBILITY OF
.\" SUCH DAMAGE.
.\"
.\" Modified Fri Jan 31 16:22:26 1997 by Eric S. Raymond <esr@thyrsus.com>
.\"
.TH CONNECT 2 "23 July 1993" "Linux 0.99.11" "Linux Programmer's Manual"
.SH NAME
connect \- initiate a connection on a socket
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B #include <sys/types.h>
.br
.B #include <sys/socket.h>
.sp
.BI "int connect(int " sockfd ", struct sockaddr *" serv_addr ", int
.BI " addrlen );
.SH DESCRIPTION
The parameter
.I sockfd
is a socket.
If it is of type
.BR SOCK_DGRAM ,
this call specifies the peer with which the socket is to be associated;
this address is that to which datagrams are to be sent, and the only
address from which datagrams are to be received.  If the socket is of type
.B SOCK_STREAM ,
this call attempts to make a connection to another socket.  The other
socket is specified by
.BR serv_addr ,
which is an address in the communications space of the socket.  Each
communications space interprets the
.BR serv_addr ,
parameter in its own way.  Generally, stream sockets may successfully
.B connect
only once; datagram sockets may use
.B connect
multiple times to change their association.  Datagram sockets may dissolve
the association by connecting to an invalid address, such as a null
address.
.SH "RETURN VALUE"
If the connection or binding succeeds, zero is returned.  On error, \-1 is
returned, and
.I errno
is set appropriately.
.SH ERRORS
The following are general socket errors only.  There may be other
domain-specific error codes. 
.TP
.B EBADF
Bad descriptor.
.TP
.B EFAULT
The socket structure address is outside your address space.
.TP
.B ENOTSOCK
The descriptor is not associated with a socket.
.TP
.B EISCONN
The socket is already connected.
.TP
.B ECONNREFUSED
Connection refused at server.
.TP
.B ETIMEDOUT
Timeout while attempting connection.
.TP
.B ENETUNREACH
Network is unreachable.
.TP
.B EADDRINUSE
Address is already in use.
.TP
.B EINPROGRESS
The socket is non-blocking and the connection cannot be completed
immediately.  It is possible to
.BR select (2)
for completion by selecting the socket for writing. After \fBselect\fR
indicates writability, use
.BR getsockopt (2)
to read the \fBSO_ERROR\fR option at level \fBSOL_SOCKET\fR to determine
whether \fBconnect\fR completed successfully (\fBSO_ERROR\fR is zero) or
unsuccessfully (\fBSO_ERROR\fR is one of the usual error codes listed
above, explaining the reason for the failure).
.TP
.B EALREADY
The socket is non-blocking and a previous connection attempt has not yet
been completed.
.SH CONFORMING TO
SVr4, 4.4BSD (the
.B connect
function first appeared in BSD 4.2).  SVr4 documents additional
general error codes EADDRNOTAVAIL, EINVAL, EAFNOSUPPORT, 
EALREADY, EINTR, EPROTOTYPE, ENOSR.  It also
documents many additional error conditions not described here.
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.BR accept "(2), " bind "(2), " listen "(2), "
.BR socket "(2), " getsockname (2)
