.\" Copyright (c) 1983, 1991 The Regents of the University of California.
.\" All rights reserved.
.\"
.\" Redistribution and use in source and binary forms, with or without
.\" modification, are permitted provided that the following conditions
.\" are met:
.\" 1. Redistributions of source code must retain the above copyright
.\"    notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer.
.\" 2. Redistributions in binary form must reproduce the above copyright
.\"    notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer in the
.\"    documentation and/or other materials provided with the distribution.
.\" 3. All advertising materials mentioning features or use of this software
.\"    must display the following acknowledgement:
.\"	This product includes software developed by the University of
.\"	California, Berkeley and its contributors.
.\" 4. Neither the name of the University nor the names of its contributors
.\"    may be used to endorse or promote products derived from this software
.\"    without specific prior written permission.
.\"
.\" THIS SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED BY THE REGENTS AND CONTRIBUTORS ``AS IS'' AND
.\" ANY EXPRESS OR IMPLIED WARRANTIES, INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, THE
.\" IMPLIED WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY AND FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE
.\" ARE DISCLAIMED.  IN NO EVENT SHALL THE REGENTS OR CONTRIBUTORS BE LIABLE
.\" FOR ANY DIRECT, INDIRECT, INCIDENTAL, SPECIAL, EXEMPLARY, OR CONSEQUENTIAL
.\" DAMAGES (INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, PROCUREMENT OF SUBSTITUTE GOODS
.\" OR SERVICES; LOSS OF USE, DATA, OR PROFITS; OR BUSINESS INTERRUPTION)
.\" HOWEVER CAUSED AND ON ANY THEORY OF LIABILITY, WHETHER IN CONTRACT, STRICT
.\" LIABILITY, OR TORT (INCLUDING NEGLIGENCE OR OTHERWISE) ARISING IN ANY WAY
.\" OUT OF THE USE OF THIS SOFTWARE, EVEN IF ADVISED OF THE POSSIBILITY OF
.\" SUCH DAMAGE.
.\"
.\"     @(#)getsockopt.2	6.9 (Berkeley) 5/1/91
.\"
.\" Modified Sat Jul 24 16:19:32 1993 by Rik Faith (faith@cs.unc.edu)
.\" Modified Mon Apr 22 02:29:06 1996 by Martin Schulze (joey@infodrom.north.de)
.\" Modified Tue Aug 27 10:52:51 1996 by Andries Brouwer (aeb@cwi.nl)
.\" Modified Thu Jan 23 13:29:34 1997 by Andries Brouwer (aeb@cwi.nl)
.\"
.TH GETSOCKOPT 2 "22 April 1996" "BSD Man Page" "Linux Programmer's Manual"
.SH NAME
getsockopt, setsockopt \- get and set options on sockets
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B #include <sys/types.h>
.br
.B #include <sys/socket.h>
.sp 2
.BI "int getsockopt(int " s ", int " level ", int " optname ,
.BI "void *" optval ", int *" optlen );
.sp
.BI "int setsockopt(int " s ", int " level ", int " optname ,
.BI "const void *" optval ", int " optlen );
.SH DESCRIPTION
.B Getsockopt
and
.B setsockopt
manipulate the
.I options
associated with a socket.  Options may exist at multiple
protocol levels; they are always present at the uppermost
.B socket
level.

When manipulating socket options the level at which the
option resides and the name of the option must be specified.
To manipulate options at the socket level,
.I level
is specified as
.BR SOL_SOCKET .
To manipulate options at any
other level the protocol number of the appropriate protocol
controlling the option is supplied.  For example,
to indicate that an option is to be interpreted by the
.B TCP
protocol,
.I level
should be set to the protocol number of
.BR TCP ;
see
.BR getprotoent (3).

The parameters
.I optval
and
.I optlen
are used to access option values for
.BR setsockopt .
For
.B getsockopt
they identify a buffer in which the value for the
requested option(s) are to be returned.  For
.BR getsockopt ,
.I optlen
is a value-result parameter, initially containing the
size of the buffer pointed to by
.IR optval ,
and modified on return to indicate the actual size of
the value returned.  If no option value is
to be supplied or returned,
.I optval
may be NULL.

.I Optname
and any specified options are passed uninterpreted to the appropriate
protocol module for interpretation.  The include file
.I <sys/socket.h>
contains definitions for socket level options, described below.  Options at
other protocol levels vary in format and name; consult the appropriate
entries in section 4 of the manual.

Most socket-level options utilize an
.I int
parameter for
.IR optval .
For
.BR setsockopt ,
the parameter should be non-zero to enable a boolean option, or zero if the
option is to be disabled.
.B SO_LINGER
uses a
.I struct linger
parameter, defined in
.IR <linux/socket.h> ,
which specifies the desired state of the option and the
linger interval (see below).
.B SO_SNDTIMEO
and
.B SO_RCVTIMEO
use a
.I struct timeval
parameter, defined in
.IR <sys/time.h> .

The following options are recognized at the socket level.
Except as noted, each may be examined with
.B getsockopt
and set with
.BR setsockopt .
.TP 0.8i
SO_DEBUG
enables recording of debugging information
.TP
SO_REUSEADDR
enables local address reuse
.TP
SO_KEEPALIVE
enables keep connections alive
.TP
SO_DONTROUTE
enables routing bypass for outgoing messages
.TP
SO_LINGER
linger on close if data present
.TP
SO_BROADCAST
enables permission to transmit broadcast messages
.TP
SO_OOBINLINE
enables reception of out-of-band data in band
.TP
SO_SNDBUF
set buffer size for output
.TP
SO_RCVBUF
set buffer size for input
.TP
SO_SNDLOWAT
set minimum count for output
.TP
SO_RCVLOWAT
set minimum count for input
.TP
SO_SNDTIMEO
get timeout value for output (get only)
.TP
SO_RCVTIMEO
get timeout value for input (get only)
.TP
SO_TYPE
get the type of the socket (get only)
.TP
SO_ERROR
get and clear error on the socket (get only)
.PP
.B SO_DEBUG
enables debugging in the underlying protocol modules.
.B SO_REUSEADDR
indicates that the rules used in validating addresses supplied
in a
.BR bind (2)
call should allow reuse of local addresses.
.B SO_KEEPALIVE
enables the periodic transmission of messages on a connected socket.
Should the connected party fail to respond to these messages, the
connection is considered broken and processes using the socket are notified
via a
.B SIGPIPE
signal when attempting to send data.
.B SO_DONTROUTE
indicates that outgoing messages should bypass the standard routing
facilities.  Instead, messages are directed to the appropriate network
interface according to the network portion of the destination address.

.B SO_LINGER
controls the action taken when unsent messages
are queued on socket and a 
.BR close (2)
is performed.
If the socket promises reliable delivery of data and
.B SO_LINGER
is set,
the system will block the process on the 
.B close
attempt until it is able to transmit the data or until it decides it is
unable to deliver the information (a timeout period, termed the linger
interval, is specified in the
.B setsockopt
call when
.B SO_LINGER
is requested). 
If
.B SO_LINGER
is disabled and a 
.B close
is issued, the system will process the close in a manner that allows
the process to continue as quickly as possible.

The 
.I linger
structure is defined in
.I <linux/socket.h>
as follows:
.sp
.RS
.nf
.ta 8n 16n 32n
struct linger {
        int  l_onoff;   /* Linger active */
        int  l_linger;  /* How long to linger for */
};
.ta
.fi
.RE

.B l_onoff
indicates wether to linger or not. If it is set to 1 then
.B l_linger
contains the time in hundredths of seconds how long the process should
linger to complete the
.BR close .
If
.B l_onoff
is set to zero the process returns immediately.

The option
.B SO_BROADCAST
requests permission to send broadcast datagrams on the socket.  Broadcast
was a privileged operation in earlier versions of the system.  With
protocols that support out-of-band data, the
.B SO_OOBINLINE
option requests that out-of-band data be placed in the normal data input
queue as received; it will then be accessible with
.B recv
or
.B read
calls without the
.B MSG_OOB
flag.  Some protocols always behave as if this option is set.
.B SO_SNDBUF
and
.B SO_RCVBUF
are options to adjust the normal buffer sizes allocated for output and
input buffers, respectively.  The buffer size may be increased for
high-volume connections, or may be decreased to limit the possible backlog
of incoming data.  The system places an absolute limit on these values.

.B SO_SNDLOWAT
is an option to set the minimum count for output operations.  Most output
operations process all of the data supplied by the call, delivering data to
the protocol for transmission and blocking as necessary for flow control.
Nonblocking output operations will process as much data as permitted
subject to flow control without blocking, but will process no data if flow
control does not allow the smaller of the low water mark value or the
entire request to be processed.  A
.BR select (2)
operation testing the ability to write to a socket will return true only if
the low water mark amount could be processed.  The default value for
.B SO_SNDLOWAT
is set to a convenient size for network efficiency, often 1024.

.B SO_RCVLOWAT
is an option to set the minimum count for input operations.  In general,
receive calls will block until any (non-zero) amount of data is received,
then return with smaller of the amount available or the amount requested.
The default value for
.B SO_RCVLOWAT
is 1.
If 
.B SO_RCVLOWAT
is set to a larger value, blocking receive calls normally wait until they
have received the smaller of the low water mark value or the requested
amount.  Receive calls may still return less than the low water mark if an
error occurs, a signal is caught, or the type of data next in the receive
queue is different than that returned.

.B SO_SNDTIMEO
is an option to get the timeout value for output operations.
(It can be used with
.I getsockopt
only).  It returns a
.I struct timeval
parameter with the number of seconds and microseconds used to limit waits
for output operations to complete.  If a send operation has blocked for
this much time, it returns with a partial count or with the error
.B EWOULDBLOCK
if no data were sent.  In the current implementation, this timer is
restarted each time additional data are delivered to the protocol, implying
that the limit applies to output portions ranging in size from the low
water mark to the high water mark for output.
.B SO_RCVTIMEO
is an option to get the timeout value for input operations.
(It can be used with
.I getsockopt
only).  It returns a
.I struct timeval
parameter with the number of seconds and microseconds used to limit waits
for input operations to complete.  In the current implementation, this
timer is restarted each time additional data are received by the protocol,
and thus the limit is in effect an inactivity timer.  If a receive
operation has been blocked for this much time without receiving additional
data, it returns with a short count or with the error
.B EWOULDBLOCK
if no data were received.

Finally, also
.B SO_TYPE
and
.B SO_ERROR
are options used only with
.IR getsockopt .
.B SO_TYPE
returns the type of the socket, such as
.BR SOCK_STREAM ;
it is useful for servers that inherit sockets on startup.
.B SO_ERROR
returns any pending error on the socket and clears the error status.  It
may be used to check for asynchronous errors on connected datagram sockets
or for other asynchronous errors.
.SH "RETURN VALUE"
On success, zero is returned.  On error, \-1 is returned, and
.I errno
is set appropriately.
.SH ERRORS
.TP 0.8i
.B EBADF
The argument
.I s
is not a valid descriptor.
.TP
.B ENOTSOCK
The argument
.I s
is a file, not a socket.
.TP
.B ENOPROTOOPT
The option is unknown at the level indicated.
.TP
.B EFAULT
The address pointed to by 
.I optval
is not in a valid part of the process address space.  For
.BR getsockopt ,
this error may also be returned if
.I optlen
is not in a valid part of the process address space.
.SH CONFORMING TO
SVr4, 4.4BSD (these system calls first appeared in 4.2BSD).
SVr4 documents additional ENOMEM and ENOSR error codes, but does
not document the 
.BR SO_SNDLOWAT ", " SO_RCVLOWAT ", " SO_SNDTIMEO ", " SO_RCVTIMEO
options
.SH BUGS
Several of the socket options should be handled at lower levels of the
system.
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.BR ioctl "(2), " socket "(2), " getprotoent "(3), " protocols (5)
