.\" libsocket Copyright 1997, 1998 by Indrek Mandre
.\" libsocket Copyright 1997, 1998 by Richard Dawe
.\" Manual pages written by Richard Dawe
.\"
.TH NETSETUP 8 "11 June 1998" "libsocket 0.7.2" "libsocket Reference"
.SH NAME
netsetup \- libsocket Library Networking Set-Up
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B netsetup
.SH DESCRIPTION
netsetup sets up various configuration files for libsocket.
.sp
netsetup is an interactive program that creates versions of
.IR host.conf ,
.I resolv.conf
and
.IR hosts ,
because these are not usually present on Windows '95 computers. These are
required for libsocket's networking to function correctly. The files created
need to moved and renamed to the Windows directory, usually
.IR C:\eWINDOWS .
.sp
In order to create the files, netsetup needs the following information:
.HP
.RS
Your computer's name and IP address
.sp
Your domain name
.sp
Whether there is a DNS server and its IP address (if applicable)
.RE
.sp
The first piece of information is used to create the
.I hosts
file. The remainder is used to create the
.I host.conf
and
.I resolv.conf
files.
.sp
The
.I hosts
file created contains entries for
.B localhost
and whatever name you entered for your computer. This file is used to resolve
names when no DNS server is present - it is used to translate names to IP
addresses, e.g. myserver -> 192.168.0.2.
.sp
If there is no DNS server present, then netsetup will tell libsocket to use
the
.I hosts
file for name resolution before using a DNS server. If one is present, then
the order will be reversed.
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR libsocket (7),
.BR hosts (5)
and
.BR resolver (5).
