.\" libsocket Copyright 1997, 1998 by Indrek Mandre
.\" libsocket Copyright 1997, 1998 by Richard Dawe
.\" Manual pages written by Richard Dawe
.\"
.TH LIBSOCKET 7 "18 August 1998" "libsocket 0.7.3" "libsocket Reference"
.SH NAME
libsocket \- libsocket Library Overview
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B #include <sys/socket.h>
.SH DESCRIPTION
libsocket is a socket-based networking library for DJGPP.
.sp
libsocket uses Windows 3.x and '95's networking code to provide TCP/IP services
to DJGPP programs when they are run in a DOS box under Windows. It does this by
using Windows' Winsock Virtual Device Drivers (VxDs) via a DOS Interrupt
service.
.sp
libsocket requires Windows TCP/IP drivers to be installed to work - see the Windows'
Networking Control Panel.
.sp
The library is based on Linux's socket networking code. This means that any
programs using standard socket calls should work (changes to the programs
will probably be necessary due to DOS's limitations). It also allows
programmers with familiarity of standard socket calls to quickly write programs
using DJGPP.
.sp
Since it is based on Linux's code, the library looks for configuration files
with the same name as on Linux. These files are
.IR host.conf ,
.IR resolv.conf ,
.IR hosts ,
.I networks
and
.I services
- on Linux these are found in
.IR /etc ,
but libsocket looks for them in the Windows directory or a directory specified
by the environment variable
.IR LIBSOCKET .
.sp
.I host.conf
and
.I resolv.conf
need creating - see
.BR resolver (5).
This process can be automated with
.BR netsetup (8).
.sp
The files
.IR hosts ,
.I networks
and
.I services
are usually present in the Windows directory, although they usually
need editing. See
.BR hosts (5),
.BR networks (5)
and
.BR services (5).
The file
.I protocols
is usually also be present in the Windows directory, but libsocket does not use
this - see
.BR protocols (5).
.SH COMPONENTS
The library provides the include files and linkable libraries. These have the same
names as on Linux (and other socket-compatible OS's):
.I socket.h
and
.IR libsocket.a .
.SH BUGS
The library doesn't work under Windows NT as it doesn't have a Winsock VxD.
.sp
The library doesn't work with Winsock 2, which means it will not work with
Windows '98.
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR resolver (5),
.BR hosts (5),
.BR networks (5),
.BR services (5)
and
.BR protocols (5)
.SH AVAILABILITY
This library is free software; you can redistribute it and/or modify it
under the terms of the GNU Library General Public License as published
by the Free Software Foundation; either version 2 of the License, or (at
your option) any later version.
.sp
This library is distributed in the hope that it will be useful, but
WITHOUT ANY WARRANTY; without even the implied warranty of
MERCHANTABILITY or FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE.  See the GNU
Library General Public License for more details.
.sp
You should have received a copy of the GNU Library General Public
License along with this library; if not, write to the Free Software
Foundation, Inc., 675 Mass Ave, Cambridge, MA 02139, USA.
.sp
Copyright 1997, 1998 by Indrek Mandre
.br
Copyright 1997, 1998 by Richard Dawe
.br
Portions copyright (C) 1997-1998 by The RegDos Group
.sp
The main distribution site for this library is
.IR http://libsocket.home.ml.org/ .
The old distribution site for this library is
.IR http://www.pld.ttu.ee/~indrek ,
the old maintainer's home page, from which there is a link to the new site.
.sp
The documentation on the home page is likely to be more up-to-date than
these man pages.
.SH AUTHORS
Indrek Mandre
.HP
.RS
Indrek was the main author for libsocket, but no longer maintains it (see
below).
.sp
<indrek@warp.edu.ee>
.br
http://www.pld.ttu.ee/~indrek
.RE
.sp
Richard Dawe
.HP
.RS
Rich now maintains libsocket for Indrek.
.sp
<rd5718@bristol.ac.uk>
.br
http://irix.bris.ac.uk/~rd5718/
.RE
.SH CREDITS
Dan M. Hedlund
.HP
.RS
<hedl0036@tc.umn.edu>
.br
http://www.geocities.com/SiliconValley/Peaks/8523/
.RE
.HP
.RS
His Winsock library is the base of this library.
.RE
.sp
Alfons Hoogervorst
.HP
.RS
<alfons@hoogervorst.demon.nl>
.br
http://www.hoogervorst.demon.nl/~proteus
.RE
.HP
.RS
His dsock library helped me to get select() and blocking recv() calls work.
He's also the maintainer of the RegDos registry access code. He also
contributed some information about obtaining IP addresses under Windows.
.RE
.sp
The RegDos Group
.HP
.RS
The registry access code was contributed by this group of people - see Alfons
Hoogervorst's details below as he is the maintainer of this project.
.RE
.sp
Linus Torvalds
.HP
.RS
Linux is the best OS. I did most of the coding under it.
.RE
.SH DISCREDITS
Bill
.HP
.RS
<billg@microsoft.com>
.br
http://www.microsoft.com/
.RE
.HP
.RS
The worst OS I've ever seen. It's slow. It crashes all the time and it looks
ugly.
.RE
.br
